# Conclusions

I hope that you've found this introduction to Backbone.js of value. What you've hopefully learned is that while building a JavaScript-heavy application using nothing more than a DOM manipulation library (such as jQuery) is certainly a possible feat, it is difficult to build anything non-trivial without any formal structure in place. Your nested pile of jQuery callbacks and DOM elements are unlikely to scale, and they can be very difficult to maintain as your application grows.

The beauty of Backbone.js is its simplicity. It's very small given the functionality and flexibility it provides, which is evident if you begin to study the Backbone.js source. In the words of Jeremy Ashkenas, "The essential premise at the heart of Backbone has always been to try and discover the minimal set of data-structuring (Models and Collections) and user interface (Views and URLs) primitives that are useful when building web applications with JavaScript." It just helps you improve the structure of your applications, thereby helping you better separate concerns. There isn't anything more to it than that.

Backbone offers Models with key-value bindings and events, Collections with an API of rich enumerable methods, declarative Views with event handling and a simple way to connect an existing API to your client-side application over a RESTful JSON interface. Use it and you can abstract away data into sane models and your DOM manipulation into views, binding them together using nothing more than events.

Almost any developer working on JavaScript applications for a while will ultimately create a similar solution on their own if they value architecture and maintainability. The alternative to using Backbone or something similar is rolling your own - often a process that involves glueing together a diverse set of libraries that weren't built to work together. You might use jQuery BBQ for history management and Handlebars for templating, while writing abstracts for organizing and testing code by yourself. 

Contrast this with Backbone, which has [literate](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literate_programming) [documentation](http://backbonejs.org/docs/backbone.html) of the source code, a thriving community of both users and hackers, and a large number of questions about it asked and answered daily on sites like [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/search?q=backbone). Rather than re-inventing the wheel, there are many advantages to structuring your application using a solution based on the collective knowledge and experience of an entire community. 

In addition to helping provide sane structure to your applications, Backbone is highly extensible. Backbone supports more custom architecture should you require more than what is prescribed out of the box. This is evident by the number of Backbone extensions and plugins which have been released over the past year, including those which we have touched upon such as MarionetteJS and Thorax. 

These days Backbone.js powers many complex web applications, ranging from the LinkedIn [mobile app](http://touch.www.linkedin.com/mobile.html) to popular RSS readers such as [NewsBlur](http://newsblur.com) through to social commentary widgets such as [Disqus](http://disqus.com/). This small library of simple, but sane abstractions has helped to create a new generation of rich web applications, and I and my collaborators hope that in time it can help you too. 

If you're wondering whether it is worth using Backbone on a project, ask yourself whether what you are building is complex enough to merit using it. Are you hitting the limits of your ability to organize your code? Will your application have regular changes to what is displayed in the UI without a trip back to the server for new pages? Would you benefit from a separation of concerns? If so, a solution like Backbone may be able to help.

Google's GMail is often cited as an example of a well-built single-page app. If you've used it, you might have noticed that it requests a large initial chunk of data, representing most of the JavaScript, CSS and HTML most users will need. Everything extra needed after that occurs in the background. GMail can easily switch between your inbox to your spam folder without needing the whole page to be re-rendered. Libraries like Backbone make it easier for web developers to create experiences like this.

That said, Backbone won't be able to help if you're planning on building something which isn't worth the learning curve associated with a library. If your application or site will still be using the server to do the heavy lifting of constructing and serving complete pages to the browser, you may find just using plain JavaScript or jQuery for simple effects or interactions to be more appropriate. Spend time assessing how suitable Backbone might be for your application and make the right choice on a per-project basis.

Backbone is neither difficult to learn nor to use. However, the time and effort you spend learning how to structure applications using it will be well worth it. While reading this book will equip you with the fundamentals needed to understand the library, the best way to learn is to try building your own real-world applications. You will hopefully find that the end product contains cleaner, better organized and more maintainable code.

With that, I wish you the very best with your onward journey into the world of Backbone and will leave you with a quote from American writer [Henry Miller](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Miller) -  “One’s destination is never a place, but a new way of seeing things.” 
